[Applause] Yeah, there you go. All right. The gateway to Mars.
So, here we are. Here we are at uh at the newly
incorporated Starbase, Texas. [Applause]
This is uh the first new city made in America in I think quite a few decades.
Uh that uh at least that's what I'm told. And uh very cool name and it's
named that because it is the it is where we're going to develop the technology necessary to take uh humanity uh and
civilization and and life as we know it to another planet for the first time in the 4 and a half billion year history of
Earth.
[Applause] So go with this little video here. This
is how it started off with basically nothing. So start stra started off as
basically a sandbar with
nothing. Even those little things we built obviously
[Music] That's the original sort of MadMax
rocket. This is where you discover light. Light lighting is very important for that Mad Max rocket.
So, yeah, not that long ago, there was basically nothing here. And in the space of about five or six years, uh, thanks
to the incredible work of the SpaceX team, uh, we've built a small city, uh,
and we've built, uh, two a gigantic launch pads and a gigantic rocket
factory for a gigantic rocket. Um, so and the cool thing is for anyone out
there who's watching this, uh, you can actually come and visit, uh, because our
entire production facility and launch site are on a public highway. Um, so anyone comes who comes to South Texas,
um, can come and see the rocket pretty close up and see the factory. And um so
anyone who's interested in seeing the largest flying object on Earth can come here anytime they want and just drive
down the public highway and see it, which is pretty cool. So then we progress to where we are now,
Starbase 2025.
So, we're we're now at the point where we can produce a ship roughly every 2 or
3 weeks. Now, we we don't always produce a ship every 2 or 3 weeks because we are
making design upgrades. Um, but ultimately, we're aiming for the ability
to produce a,000 ships a year. So, three ships a
day. So, that's where things are now. I'm standing in that building.
That's our hovercraft.
We're driving booster down the road to the uh launch
site. You can see the mega
bays. And as I said, what's cool the cool thing for those out out there watching this video is that you can actually just literally come here, drive
down the road and see it, which is the first time in history that that's been possible.
So all this cool stuff you that that that road on the left there, that highway is public and you can just come
here and see it, which I recommend doing. I think it's very inspiring to see.
So that's our gigaby. So we're where we're expanding integration to produce a thousand starships per
year. Well, yeah, that hasn't been built yet, but we're building it. Um, that is a truly enormous
structure. This will be one that'll be one of the biggest structures, I think, by some measures, the biggest structure in the
world. And it's designed for a thousand starships a
year. We're also building a gigabay in Florida bringing so we'll have uh two
facilities, one in Texas and one in Florida. It's it's actually difficult to
gauge the tr the size of these buildings because you need a kind of human for scale. When you see how tiny a human is
next to that building, you realize just how enormous it is.
So when we look at uh our bullet comparison vehicles per year um and uh
so you look at Boeing and Airbus making uh airplanes uh Starship making will be making at
some point probably as many starships for Mars as uh Boeing and Airbus make
commercial airplanes. So this is really at a scale enormous scale and each starship uh will
have a capability uh it's it's each starship is bigger than a 747 or an
A380 like it's truly enormous. Uh and then in terms of uh
Starship Starlink satellites, the version 3 satellites making on the order of 5,000 a year, maybe at some point
closer to 10,000 a year. And those uh Stallink V3 satellites are uh each the
size of roughly a 737. They're pretty
big. That compares to the B24 bomber in World War
II. Now it's still small compared to Tesla. Um so and Tesla will probably
doing you know um double or triple that volume in the future. So it just puts
things into perspective that is it is actually possible to build uh a vast
number of uh interplanetary starships. Um, and even when you can compare things
on on the tonnage standpoint, Tesla is still and and other car companies are still building far more complex
manufacturer tonnage uh than than SpaceX, which is really is a way of saying that uh it's very achievable like
the these numbers while they are insanely high by traditional space standards are are uh are achievable by
humans because they have been achieved in other industries. Progress is measured by the timeline to establishing
a self-sustaining civilization on Mars. That's how we're gauging our progress here at Starbase. So, with each launch,
especially in the early days of of Starship, each launch is about learning more and more about what's needed to
make life multilanetary um and to improve Starship to the point where it can be taking ultimately
hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people to Mars. Ideally, we can take anyone who wants to go to Mars, we can
take to Mars um and bring with bring all of the equipment necessary to uh make
Mars self-sustaining uh so Mars can grow by itself uh in a worst case scenario.
uh getting to the point where uh the fundamental fork in the road for human destiny is where um we where Mars can
continue to grow even if the the supply shifts from Earth stop coming for any reason. At that point uh we've achieved
civilizational uh resilience uh where um Mars can potentially come to
the rescue of Earth if something goes wrong or maybe Earth could come to the rescue of Mars. But we but having two
planets that are that are that can that that are both self- sustaining um and
strong um I think is going to be incredibly important for the long-term survival of
civilization. Um, so like just I think any given civilization is likely to last
maybe I don't know 10 times longer, maybe much longer if it is a multilanet civilization than if it is a single
planet civilization because there always there's always some chance that uh you know us humans could do something crazy
like World War II. Hopefully not, but it's possible. um or that there could be
some uh natural event like uh meteors or super volcanoes or something that we
don't expect and uh and and then if we only have one planet then that that
could be curtains but if we got two planets uh we keep going and and then we
go beyond Mars ultimately to um the moon maybe the asteroid belt the moons of
Jupiter and beyond and ultimately to other star systems and we can be out there among the stars making science
fiction no longer fiction. So in order to achieve this goal we have to be we have to make
rapidly reusable rockets so that the uh the cost per flight the cost per ton to
Mars is as low as possible. Uh that's essential. So that for that rapidly
reusable rockets I said we could it's actually four Rs. It's like a pirate R.
It's like rapidly reusable reliable rockets is the key.
R Now we've uh congrats to the SpaceX team on making incredible progress on
catching a giant rocket. [Applause]
So, it's really mind-blowing that the SpaceX team has been able to catch
the largest flying object ever made multiple
times using a very novel method of catching it out of the air with giant chopsticks.
[Music] I mean, have you ever seen that before?
Yeah, congrats again. That was an incredible achievement.
[Applause] So the the the the reason we are uh
catching it in this way which is uh never been done before is in order to
achieve the rapidly reusable portion of the in order to make the rocket rapidly
reusable. So if it is if if if if the super heavy booster which is gigantic uh
it's like 30 ft in diameter um if if if it were to land with landing legs on a
landing pad we would then have to uh pick it up uh stow the legs uh and put
it back in the launch pad. Um and that's uh it's quite difficult to transport
such a large thing. Um but if we catch it with the same tower that it's used to
put it in the uh launch uh mount to begin with that that is the best case
outcome for rapid reuse. So it literally gets caught uh by the same arms that
placed it in the launch uh in launch ring and then it is placed back in the
launch ring immediately. So in principle the super heavy booster can be refflown
within an hour of uh landing. So it it comes back in about five or six
minutes one way or another and and then it it gets caught by the tower arms
placed back in the launch mount and then you can re refill propellant in about 30
to 40 minutes and and place a ship on top of it and in principle refly the
entire booster uh every hour maybe every two hours to be give a little bit of
extra time. Um, but let's just say it's it's very it's in the limit of rapid
reuse. And then we the next thing we need to do is is catch the ship too.
So, we haven't done this yet, but we
will. So, that's what we hope to demonstrate later this year, maybe as soon as 2 or 3 months from now.
And then the the ship would be placed on top of the booster and then again uh re
re refilled with propellant and flown again. Um with the ship takes a bit
longer because it's got to orbit Earth a few times until the ground track comes back over the launch pad. Uh but it the
ship is also intended to be refflowing multiple times per day.
This is the uh the new Raptor 3 which is an awesome engine. Big hand to the Raptor team for this. This is very
exciting. [Applause]
So, Raptor 3 uh is designed to require no basic heat shield uh saving a lot of
mass on the bottom and actually improving reliability so that uh if if there is for example um a small fuel
leak uh from the Raptor engine uh it will simply leak uh into the existing
flaming plasma and um not really matter. Whereas a a fuel leak when the engines
are contained in a box uh is a very scary thing indeed. So this is a Raptor
3 uh might it'll take probably a few kicks at the can but it will be is a massive increase uh in payload
capability uh in engine efficiency uh and in reliability. So this is really a
revolutionary engine. Um, you know, Raptor 3 is really, I'd say, kind of alien technology rocket
engine. I mean, even industry experts when we showed a picture of the Raptor 3 said that engine is not complete. So,
then we said, well, here's the engine not complete, firing uh at a level of
efficiency that has never been achieved before. So,
[Applause] I mean that is one clean
engine. So in order to make the engine like that we had to simplify so many parts of the design incorporate uh
secondary fluid circuits and electronics in the structure of the engine itself. U so everything is contained and
protected. uh it is uh a marvel of engineering
frankly. Then one of the other technologies that's key for Mars is is
uh doing orbital propellant transfer. So you can think of this like similar to
aerial refueling for airplanes uh but in this case it's orbital refilling of
rockets which has never been done before. Uh but it is you know technically feasible.
Um I always feel like these things are a little NSFW sort
of listen you got to transfer fluid somehow. There's no this has got to be
done. So uh the
the the two starships would get together and one starship would transfer fuel and
oxygen and actually most of the mass is oxygen. It's almost 80% oxygen that gets transferred. Um, a little over 20% fuel.
And um, and so on you you so you send a starship to orbit with that's full of
payload and then you send a bunch of other starships up and you would refill the propellant on that starship and once
the the propellant tanks are mostly full then you can depart for the Mars for Mars or the moon or Yeah. So this is an
important technology which uh we should hopefully uh demonstrate next
[Applause]
year. So then with the uh one of the toughest problems to solve
is the uh reusable heat shield. Um so so no no one has ever developed a truly
reusable orbital heat shield. So the that it's extremely difficult to do so.
Um even the the shuttle shuttle's heat shield required several months of
refurbishment. Basically fixing broken tiles um testing each tile and um
because it's an extremely hard problem uh to to be able to withstand the extreme heat and pressure of
re-entry. Um and uh the only things that that can
really withstand this level of heat are uh advanced sort of ceramics uh kind of
uh you know basically glass, aluminum uh some types of of
uh carbon carbon but very very little actually can survive the uh and with
with reusability without getting without eroding um or falling off or cracking.
can survive the stresses of re-entry. Um, so this will be the first time
uh that it's done that that that a reusable orbital heat shield is developed. Um, and it needs to be
obviously extremely reliable. Um, so this this will be something that
we'll be working on for a few years, I think, to to keep honing the the heat shield. Um, it's it's a very it's it's
it is an achievable thing. So we're not trying to do something that isn't achievable. It is within the realm of physics to get this done. Just an
extraordinarily difficult thing to get done. And Mars uh the Mars atmosphere is
carbon dioxide, which at first may seem better, but actually it ends up being worse because
it it when the CO2 turns into a plasma and you've got you actually end up with
more free oxygen entering on a Mars atmosphere than on Earth atmosphere. So
Earth's atmosphere is only around 20% um oxygen and Mars ends up being
basically more than double that maybe triple that um when you consider when the the CO2 becomes a plasma and uh and
you and you get carbon and O2. So the that wants to oxidize the heat shield
basically burn the heat shield. So that's why we uh we tested very rig
rigorously in a CO2 atmosphere because it's got to work not just for Earth but also for
Mars. Um and and we we want we want to
use the same heat shield for Earth that we use for Mars because there are many other factors with the heat shield uh
such as making sure the tiles don't crack or fall off or anything like that. Um, so we want to have the same heat
shield structure, same material on Earth as on Mars. So we can test it uh
hundreds of times on Earth before going to Mars and be confident that when it goes to Mars, it will work.
So we developing some next generation starships which are have a number of improvements
uh versus our current gen. So uh it's taller for
example and has a a better inter kind of a the interstage
between the ship and the booster. You can see that sort of um the the sort of struts there that
makes it easier for the flame ah like that right there. Um when doing hot
staging, which is when we light the ship's engines while the booster's engines are still firing, the the flame
from the um from the ship engines can more easily exit through the uh the open
struts of the of the new interstage. And in this case, we'll bring the the struts
interstage back with us instead of throwing it
away. So, a little more height here. Uh 72 m
from around 69. Uh repellent capacity, I think we'll probably push that up a little, maybe
3,700 tons. Um long term, my guess is we're maybe
around 4,000 tons. and about just sort of just over 8, you
know, sort of uh 8,000 probably like 8,000 300. This will keep getting up. My
guess is ultimately we're 4,000 tons here, close to 10,000 tons of thrust,
but this is kind of the next uh the next level or the next version of the Super
Heavy. Uh, so the booster will look a little naked on the bottom because the
the Raptor 3 engines don't require a heat shield. So it look like it looks like there's kind of parts missing, but
that's just because the the Raptor heat shield uh does not the the Raptor 3 does
not need a heat shield. So it's just it's just standing there there in
a bathed in flaming plasma.
But it's a lot lighter. Yep.
Integrated hot stage. I think it looks
amazing. And then the shift's a little little more little longer, a little more capable. Um moving to 1550 tons of
propellant capacity. Um, and my guess is this probably ends up 20% more than this long term. Um, and
uh, yeah, you can see it the the heat shield is
sleeker. So much smoother boundaries as as the the boundary of the
the heat shield going to the leeward side uh is is very smooth.
Um, no more jagged tiles. I think it looks very
sleek. Uh so and this version we still have six engines but a future version will have nine. Uh but with the Raptor 3
again we have improved um uh uh reduced
mass higher um specific impulse. Um it's
this is the the Starship version 3 is really the it the version that is I think
achieves all of the the key elements. I mean generally with any new technology it takes three major uh three major
iterations of any major techn of any new technology to have it really really work well. And this with Raptor 3 with and
Starship and booster version three uh we it should be able to achieve all of the things that I just mentioned which is a
rapidly reusable reliable rocket uh with orbital refilling. Basically all of the
ingredients necessary uh to make life mult multilanetary will be achieved with
version three of Starship which we're aiming to launch for the first time at the end of this year.
[Applause]
Yeah. So you can see this is uh kind of where things are on the left
where things will be uh end of this year in the middle and as I was saying kind of where things will be probably
longterm um yeah 142
m. So, but the the one in the middle is is full will be fully capable of of doing
Mars. Uh, and uh thereafter we'll it'll be a lot of uh performance improvements.
Um, and as as has been the case with Falcon 9, we always end up making the
rocket longer um and increasing payload.
So, that's uh that's that's the game plan. Pretty straightforward. Um, but it's important to emphasize even with
the rocket that will be launching just at the end of this year, it will be capable of making life multilanetary and
thereafter it's it's it's just about continuing to hone the efficiency and capability of the rocket and and reduce
the cost per ton and reduce the cost per person to Mars and and like I said, ultimately make it so that anyone who
wants to move to Mars and help build a new civilization can do so.
So, anyone out there, like how cool would that would that be? And even if you don't want to do it, maybe that you
have a son or daughter who wants to do that or a friend who wants to do it. And
I think it would be the adventure, the best adventure that it one could possibly do is to go and help build a
new civilization on a new planet. [Applause]
So yeah, ultimately we'll we'll have 42 engines which it was inevitable
um as as the prophecy foretold uh by the great prophet Douglas Adams in
his uh you know book of the Hitchhog's Guide to the Galaxy. Uh the answer to
the meaning of life is 42. Um and so inevitably the Starship stack will have
42 [Applause]
engines. And in terms of payload to orbit, what's remarkable is that it's 200 tons of you know Starship will have
200 tons payload to orbit with full reusability. So this is twice the capability of the
Saturn 5 moon rocket. The Saturn 5 moon rocket was fully expendable. Uh Starship
is fully reusable but will have twice the payload to orbit um of the the next
biggest rocket that made it to orbit which is a Saturn 5. Um in fact if without reusability
Starship would have about 400 tons of payload to orbit.
So this is a this is a very big rocket is what I'm saying. So but you need a
big rocket you know to you know make life multilanetary. Um and then along the way
we could do very cool things like have a moon base um like moon base alpha long
ago there was a TV show about moon base alpha. Um you can't couldn't think about the
physics of that too much because apparently like the moon base was like drifting away from earth. Um but uh
anyway we should have a moon base alpha which is the next step after the Apollo program would be to have a base on the moon. Um so you could like you could
have a like a gigantic um you know science station uh doing research about
the nature of the universe on the moon would be very cool.
So in terms of like when can you go to Mars? So you can go to Mars every two years or every 26 months.
Um so the next Mars opportunity is at the end of next year in about 18 months. So November, December is the next Mars
opportunity. So we'll try to make that opportunity if we get lucky. I think we'll probably have a 50/50 chance right
now because we've got to uh we've got to figure out orbital refilling uh in order
to um have enough capability to go to Mars. But if we achieve orbital refilling in time, then we will launch
the first uh uncrrewed uh Starship to Mars at the end of next year.
[Applause]
So So this gives you an illustration of of how does how does a spaceship go from Earth to Mars. So you got blue Earth
there and red Mars.
And I mean the the the actual distance traveled on the ark is close to like a
thousand times further than the moon. So you can't just go straight to
Mars. You have to create this elliptical orbit with Earth at one point and Mars
at the other side at the far end of the ellipse. and then time the time the the
where you are in that or in that ellipse to intersect with Mars. And this so this is the the orbital transfer how how you
do orbital transfer from Earth to Mars. And if you look on your Starlink Wi-Fi router, you'll see this image because
the Starlink Wi-Fi is uh what is or Starink internet is what's being used to
pay for um humanity getting to Mars. So, I just like to thank everyone out there
who has bought Starlink because you're helping pay helping secure the future of civilization and helping uh make life
multip multilanetary and helping make humanity a space bearing civilization. Thank you.
So this is a tentative game plan here where we're hoping to that we're hoping
to achieve um where we increase the the cadence of
flights to Mars dramatically with every launch window. So every every roughly two years
um we are dramatically increasing the number of of of ships that go to Mars um
and ultimately try to get to a,000 or 2,000 ships u you know per Mars uh
rendevous. Um, so the the I mean as a rough order of
magnitude, this just guesses obviously, but we we need to get about a thou about about a million tons is my guess um to
the surface of Mars to make um uh a civilization on Mars self-sustaining and getting to that
critical point where um if the if the resupply ships from Earth stop coming for any reason, Mars still succeeds.
Mars can still grow. And so you can't be missing anything. You can't be missing even like the equivalent of vitamin C or
anything. You've got to have everything you need for Mars to grow. Um that's that's essential. So my guess
is that's about a million tons, but it might be 10 million tons. Uh I hope it's not 100 million tons. That'd be a lot.
Um but uh we want to try to get to that point and secure the future of civilization as quickly as
possible. So we're looking at different locations. Um the lead candidate right
now is the Arcadia region. So um now Mars has a lot of real
estate, but when you combine all of the factors and say, okay, we need we can't
be too close to the poles, we need to be um near ice for for to get to get water.
Um and uh can't be too mountainous for the rockets. Um then you you it narrows
down to a smaller region. So, Arcadia is uh uh it's one of my my my daughter's name
is Arcadia actually. Um and is one of the the options. So, we got the first
starships on Mars, gather critical data. So, the first the first flights there we'll we'll send with the Optimus robot
um so we can go out there and explore and kind of prepare the way for humans and um that'll be a very cool image if
we're able to achieve it um by launching end of next year. would actually technically arrive in
2027. Uh but that would be uh an epic fixture to see Optimus walking around on
the surface of Mars. And then with the launching two
years later, uh we would be sending humans assuming the first missions are
successful and they land successfully, we'd send humans on on the next mission. uh and we really start building the
infrastructure for Mars. So anyway, might maybe just to be
safe and we might just do two two landing episodes with the Optimus and do
the third one with humans. We'll see. So that that classic picture of the
workers on the Empire
State and then for communications on Mars uh we'll be using a version of Starlink to provide uh internet on
Mars. Yeah. So the the the speed of light even at moving at the speed of
light your best case scenario is I guess I think around 3 and a half minutes to Mars uh and then worst case is uh 22
minutes or more because Mars is on the other side of the sun from Earth. So anyway it's
it's quite challenging to do high bandwidth communications with Mars but Starlink will achieve that.
Um, yeah, and then we'll have the first humans lay the groundwork for permanent uh presence on the surface.
Um, and yeah, the goal, like I said, will be to make Mars self- sustaining as quickly as
possible. This is just a sort of rough idea of what things will be like for the first city on Mars. My guess is we'll
probably put the launch pads a little further away. um or the landing pads just in
case. But uh I mean for Mars we're going to need uh a lot of solar power. Um
we'll be you know since you you can't really walk around on the surface of
Mars at least as yet until Mars is terraformed to be like Earth. Um the you
you need to walk around with a Mars suit um and be you know initially in kind of
glass domes. Um, but it would work. Um, and eventually we can make Mars into an
Earthlike planet. And we want to get to the point
where we're uh transferring over a million tons uh at every Mars transfer
window. And then we that's like a serious civilization. A megaton per transfer
window.
So yeah, it would have a lot of spaceports. I mean, because of the fact
that you can't fly there continuously and you have to transfer in these windows, you'd have a gathering of a
thousand ships or 2,000 ships or more than that. So we look have this kind of like battle star galactica field where
all these ships are in orbit waiting to depart and uh and then they they'd all depart.
Um I look at I think an amazing image of all these ships departing at once and
then you're going to need obviously uh a lot of launch pads a lot of landing pads on Mars. Um or you'll need to move the
the ships off the landing pad pretty fast. Um, so if you get a you got uh I
don't know a few thousand ships inbound, probably need at least a few hundred pads, landing pads and
um anyway, we'll solve that problem later.
So yeah, anyway, this is this is like an incredible thing to have like this amazing city on Mars, the first city on
another planet, and
um a new world. Um, and it's also an opportunity
to, I think, for the Martians to to rethink how they want civilization to
be. So, you can maybe rethink like what kind of form of government do you want? What new rules do you want to have? Um,
there's a lot of freedom and opportunity in Mars to do a recompile on
civilization, which will be up to the Martians.
So, all right, let's get it
done. Thank you everyone. [Applause]
